README.md, before:

# Game Server programming with ASP.NET Core and MongoDB

This is a course about game server programming made for Metropolia UAS Game Development curriculum. The aim of the course is to give an overview of creating Web API's suitable for creating online features typical for games. This is not about creating realtime multiplayer games.

The technologies chosen for this course are ASP.NET Core and MongoDB. The main reasons for choosing these particular technologies are that they are open source and capable of handling demands of global scale online games.

``!! Note that not all of the presentations are available in the repository just yet !!``

## The weekly schedule

1. Introduction to game servers, C# for server development
2. C# for server development; Basics of ASP.NET Core Web API
3. Continuing on ASP.NET Core Web API; REST-architecture
4. Intro to NoSQL databases; Basics of MongoDB
5. Continuing on MongoDB
6. Basics of server security
7. Building scalable, stable, and fault tolerant servers; Student presentations

## Grading

The course grading scheme is straightforward:

There is a total of 100 points to be gained from the course

- 50 points come from the assignments (points are gained by completing the assignments)
- The other 50 comes from the project (points reflect the quality of the project)

Points are rounded to the closest 10. After rounding the points are converted to the final grades which are numbers from 0 to 5.

- 50 or less equals 0 (course failed)
- 60 points equals 1
- 70 points equals 2
- 80 points equals 3
- 90 points equals 4
- 100 points equals 5

You can also affect your grade positively by participating actively in the lectures.

## Deadlines

The deadlines for the assignments are the following:

1. 3.9 2018
2. 10.9 2018
3. 17.9 2018
4. 24.9 2018
5. 1.10 2018
6. 8.10 2018

Project: 3.10 2018

## Completing the course without class room participation

It's highly recommended to participate in the lectures because the concepts taught in the course have been generally hard for students to grasp - usually being able to ask questions and get personal support ensures success in the course. In addition to support, being present in the lectures gives you more chances to demonstrate your skills and affect your grade positively.

But if you nevertheless can not participate in the lectures, the course can be completed by doing the assignments and the project within the deadlines.

Remember to read the reading materials and slides through carefully, the information found in those should be enough to complete the exercises.

Commit message:

Add tools used for the course

README.md, after:

# Game Server programming with ASP.NET Core and MongoDB

This is a course about game server programming made for Metropolia UAS Game Development curriculum. The aim of the course is to give an overview of creating Web API's suitable for creating online features typical for games. This is not about creating realtime multiplayer games.

The technologies chosen for this course are ASP.NET Core and MongoDB. The main reasons for choosing these particular technologies are that they are open source and capable of handling demands of global scale online games.

``!! Note that not all of the presentations are available in the repository just yet !!``

## The weekly schedule

1. Introduction to game servers, C# for server development
2. C# for server development; Basics of ASP.NET Core Web API
3. Continuing on ASP.NET Core Web API; REST-architecture
4. Intro to NoSQL databases; Basics of MongoDB
5. Continuing on MongoDB
6. Basics of server security
7. Building scalable, stable, and fault tolerant servers; Student presentations

## Tools used in the course

- VSCode: https://code.visualstudio.com/download
- .Net core SDK: https://www.microsoft.com/net/download
- Omnisharp plugin for VSCode: https://github.com/OmniSharp/omnisharp-vscode
- MongoDb: https://www.mongodb.com/download-center?jmp=nav#community

## Grading

The course grading scheme is straightforward:

There is a total of 100 points to be gained from the course

- 50 points come from the assignments (points are gained by completing the assignments)
- The other 50 comes from the project (points reflect the quality of the project)

Points are rounded to the closest 10. After rounding the points are converted to the final grades which are numbers from 0 to 5.

- 50 or less equals 0 (course failed)
- 60 points equals 1
- 70 points equals 2
- 80 points equals 3
- 90 points equals 4
- 100 points equals 5

You can also affect your grade positively by participating actively in the lectures.

## Deadlines

The deadlines for the assignments are the following:

1. 3.9 2018
2. 10.9 2018
3. 17.9 2018
4. 24.9 2018
5. 1.10 2018
6. 8.10 2018

Project: 3.10 2018

## Completing the course without class room participation

It's highly recommended to participate in the lectures because the concepts taught in the course have been generally hard for students to grasp - usually being able to ask questions and get personal support ensures success in the course. In addition to support, being present in the lectures gives you more chances to demonstrate your skills and affect your grade positively.

But if you nevertheless can not participate in the lectures, the course can be completed by doing the assignments and the project within the deadlines.

Remember to read the reading materials and slides through carefully, the information found in those should be enough to complete the exercises.
