assignments/project.md, before:

# Project assignment

## Guidelines

Create a completely new project (or extend a school project if you a suitable one) which demonstrates as well as possible what you have learned about the techologies taught in this course. You can even go deeper into these technologies than we do in this course by exploring the documentations.

There are two outputs for this project: the implementation code and a presentation focused on the implementation of the project.

## Teams

You can work alone or have a team of 2-4 people.

## Evaluation criteria

- The utilization of the information taught on this course
- Utilization of self-learned features used
- The amount and quality of the features implemented
- The quality of the presentation

## Presentation

The presentation should focus on the most interesting/demanding/unique features you have made for the project.

The projects will be presented on the last lecture. The presentation should be ~15 minutes long.

## Help with the ideas for the project

If you don’t have an idea for a project you can choose from the following:

- A leaderboard service
- Admin interface for managing players (adding/modifying/querying/banning etc.)
- A simple asynchronous game (for example tic-tac-toe)
- A simple analytics service

Commit message:

Add more options for the presentation

assignments/project.md, after:

# Project assignment

## Guidelines

Create a completely new project (or extend a school project if you a suitable one) which demonstrates as well as possible what you have learned about the techologies taught in this course. You can even go deeper into these technologies than we do in this course by exploring the documentations.

There are two outputs for this project: the implementation code and a presentation focused on the implementation of the project.

## Teams

You can work alone or have a team of 2-4 people.

## Evaluation criteria

- The utilization of the information taught on this course
- Utilization of self-learned features used
- The amount and quality of the features implemented
- The quality of the presentation

## Presentation / Report

The presentation should focus on the most interesting/demanding/unique features you have made for the project.

You have 3 options for the presentation / reporting for the project:

1. Present the project in class room during on last week's class room sessions. The presentation should be ~15 minutes long.
2. If you can not participate in the class room sessions, create a video presentation
3. Or create a report about the implementation in a blog post format

## Help with the ideas for the project

If you don’t have an idea for a project you can choose from the following:

- A leaderboard service
- Admin interface for managing players (adding/modifying/querying/banning etc.)
- A simple asynchronous game (for example tic-tac-toe)
- A simple analytics service
